                               A.Kubernetes
1.container orchestration engine and open source platform for managing the containerized app.
2.using this we can do cont deplymt,autoscaling& descaling and container load balancing.
3.written in go
4.stable ver:v1.20.0
ADVANTAGES:
1.auotmatic scheduling :k8s master will have advanced scheduler to luanch a cont on a cluster nodes.
2.self healing capabilities:it will reshedule,replace, and restart the containers if the cont are crashed
3.automated rollout and rollback:Automated rollouts and rollback
   ROLLOUT:it will automatically switch to the latest version of our app
   ROLLBACK:if that latest app is not healthy we can easily rollback to our previous version.
4.Horizontalscaling & load balancing: -->it automaticallly scaleup and scaledown the app and do load balancing
5.service discovery:need not worry about netwrk and comm bcz it will automatically assign ip add to cont and a single dns name 
                    that can load balance inside the traffic, if it has a service and it has a many pod it will also do
                     autoscaling.
6.storage orchestration:with k8s we can mount the storage sm(backup of our pod and containers)

k8's is declarative one-we need to declare what we want(how many replicas,etcc...)

                          (B)K8'S OBJECTS: 
1.PODS
2.REPLICATION CONTROLLER
3.REPLICASET
4.DAEMONSET
5.DEPLOYMENT
6.PERSISTANT VOL
7.SERVICE



                         (C)KUBERNETES ARCHITECHTURE:
k8's implements a cluster computing background ,everything works from insdie the k8's cluster.
 the cluster is hosted by one node act as master nd other act as slave(node) which do actual contzn.

MASTER NODE:
1.MASTER MACHINE
2.CONTAINER RUN TIME
3.API-SERVER
4.CONTROL MANAGERS
5.SCHEDULERS
6.ETCD 


1.API-APP PROGm INTERFACE--->  user interacts with api ,it is a frontend of the k8 control plane.(using this we can comm to create pod,dply,update,etc..)
2.Etcd -from api it persist(save) the info -->keyvalue data store (like DB),will have cluster info,maintain all the workload info of k8s.
         it is db of k8's
3.schedular: try to schedule the unscheduled pod in node with the help of kubelet from the etcd .
4.control manager:it contron nd manages the nodes and pod
  a.node controller
  b.replication controller
  c.deplyoment controller 
  d.endpoint controller

NODE1.
WORKER NODE (MINION).
1.CONTAINER RUN TIME
2.KUBELET :node agent(master machine will interact with kubelet and it makesures  that containers are running in a pod,it will interact 
           with cont run time,to create a cont
3.KUBEPROXY : it contains the nwkng part,it redirect requests from cluster ip(virtual ip address) to pod ip,it maintains a netwrking parart
 

FOR APP DEPLYMNT NEED TO INTERACT WITH MASTER USING CLI(KUBECTL), comm thrugh api
kubectl and master machine need not to be in the same server ,it will comm via remote server.

                                     (D)K8 INSTALLATION

TYPES:  1.SELF MANAGED K8 CLUSTER                                                   2.MANAGED K8 CLUSTER(CLOUD SERVERS)
         KUBEADM --multinode k8s                                                     EKS-elastic k8 service (aws
         MINI KUBE--single node k8                                                      aks ,gke -google k8 engine,ike-ibm
         kops-k8 ops 
kops -it is a sw using this which can setup hihgly available prod ready k8s cluster in aws.kops will levarage cloud concepts like
      autoscaling groups & launch config to setup highly availabe k8 cluster
      it have 2 autoscaling groups and 2 launch config readily 1.for master and another for worker.


1.SETTING A SELF MANAGED K8 CLUSTER:
1.taking 3 unutu servers 1-manager 2-worker for manager need 4gb ram.
Master =security groups= 6443 (k8 api server),2379-2380(etcd serverclient api),10250-->kubelet api,10251-->kube-scheduler,10252-->kube control mngr
worker node=10250-->kupelet  api,tcp=30000-32767

putty:following steps should done in all the server.
sudo su -
apt-get update -y
apt-get install docker.io -y
systemctl restart docker(optional)
system enable docker.service (optional)
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add
sudo apt-add-repository "deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/kubernetes-xenial main"
sudo apt-get install kubeadm kubelet kubectl
kubeadm version

sudo swapoff –a                                    swapmem=if the ram is full it will try to write some file, in k8 it should be disable
sed -i '/ swap /s/^\(.*\)$/#\1/g' /etc/fstab
apt-get install -y apt-transport-https curl


systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl start kubelet
systemctl enable kubelet.services  

should done in master:
kubeadm init --which will inti apiserver,etcd,control manager,...

1.while installing it will ask for start the using the cluster,need to run the following cmd (it contains master ip adn api portno)
2.for connecting machine using tokens(should run ina worker machine)

kubectl version
kubectl get nodes
kubeadm token create --print-join-command (if we loss the tocken we can get this from the accnt   
IN A 2 WORKER MACHINE:
as a root paste the token here 

IN MASTER:
kubectl get nodes-->it will list the node along with the master 
all machines are not in a ready state (bcz we need to setup the nw)   
need to initialize the network drivers -->kubectl get pods -n kube-system -->kubectl get pods -n kube-system -o wide =it shows all the info (some parts are 
waiting for nw)`
kubernets network -->weavent ihit that and paste  in master (it will work as a overlaynetworks and also as a pods) 
                         






 
